all right hello everyone and welcome
once again to the Stellar open protocol
discussion these meetings are for
discussing core advancement proposals or
caps
they're technical specs that suggest
changes to the Stellar protocol
and they allow the protocol to advance
to evolve to meet the needs of the
ecosystem they allow us to add new
features to the protocol these meetings
are live streamed so that anyone who's
interested can follow along but again
it's a technical discussion about these
very technical caps so if you're
watching you probably want to take a
look at the caps that are linked to in
the show descriptions along with the
mailing list discussions about those
caps today we're once again discussing
the two caps we discussed last time cap
42 multi-part transaction sets which
again has been revised since our last
discussion and cap 44 speed x
configuration there have been a lot of
questions on the mailing list about that
so this meeting again is just part of
the caf cap life cycle and a lot of
open discussion about the caps actually
happens on that mailing list again link
to in the show description so if
you're really interested in joining the
discussion
please sign up for that mailing list and
you can sort of see a lot of these
questions come in and a lot of the
answers are made there or they're sort
of brought the questions are brought to
this meeting
and so
I'm going to sort of end it there if you
want to look up anyone who is in this
meeting and find out who we are you can
see our names i'll let you do that on
your own
but in the interest of just keeping
things moving along let's
actually just kick off the conversation
so first up we're going to talk about
cap 42 multi-part transaction sets
this cap would give validators control
over which fee policy to use for
individual transactions
including
included in a ledger and we actually
discussed it previous meeting it was
revised it was revised again
and so I'm going to kick it over to
nikola who made some of those revisions
so that he can walk us through the
changes real quick nico
yeah thanks justin so
yeah like the actually there was the
changes i made were actually pretty
changes I made were actually pretty
minor
i mean expected given where we are
I mean expected given where we are
so
yeah like the the changes were basically
reflecting the
what we discussed at the last protocol
meeting so
the the actual functional change in the
cap is the
the use of the total
on the sum of fibs as to to to
sort
transaction sets
and then the other change is
related to questions that
that we had last time and that were
also raised on the on the mailing list
around
what does it mean for clients in
particular we have documentation today
that talks about using
like like the fee stats or the
like bidding as much as you can
as a strategy and this needed to
be tweaked a little bit so i
i put a
I put a
possible approach to how to to do
this with the after this new captex
takes effect
so like
i don't know if people have time to
I don't know if people have time to
review it i think i imagine actually
review it I think I imagine actually
that maybe lee that i think was
that maybe lee that I think was
not at the last protocol meeting maybe
has some questions
yeah i i did listen to the last protocol
yeah I did listen to the last protocol
meeting and i think the
meeting and I think the
conversation actually answered a lot of
the questions that i had and i think you
the questions that I had and I think you
and it goes on the mailing list
i think the only comment that i had
I think the only comment that I had
about the conversation where you know
the
wallets will probably change
the pattern that they use to
use things like fee bumps you know if
they need to bump the up
the the fee they're paying i think
the the fee they're paying I think
realistically for your average wallet
you know fee bumps will probably not
even be necessary it'll be more like
you know you try to submit a transaction
it fails and so you just modify the fee
on your current transaction so you've
got a new transaction
and then you sign that again and submit
it
the pattern sounds pretty clear
and
i think
I think
the the only remaining question i have
the the only remaining question I have
is do we need to discuss
what the rollout will look like because
given that
given that wallets will you know there
is some change in expectations
you know what sort of lead time do we
basically need to give the ecosystem
to
to adjust or learn about this new
process
right so like time i mean
right so like time I mean
yeah like as
as long as people like you said like
today i imagine that most wallets
today I imagine that most wallets
actually deal with
like failures like timeouts of when
they submit transactions
but i i do agree that there is like
but I do agree that there is like
some
awareness here on this is about to
change you may actually run into
well you probably
want to maybe reduce the
the maximum bid for for wallets that are
where people actually set very high bids
which i think there are some i mean not
which I think there are some I mean not
very high but like
you know
like let's say one lumen which is very
high for in today's standard
so yeah so there's probably some
communication that needs to go out there
too that people should actually not
put like some
very high number that they don't expect
to
to to pay and instead
i think maybe aligned with what actually
I think maybe aligned with what actually
a lot of wallets are it seems to be
doing a lot of what the common fee we
see which is more in the 10 000
troops or something
or 40 000 troops which is still
some penny yeah i think i think a lot go
some penny yeah I think I think a lot go
with a hundred thousand
which is i mean this is still fine yeah
which is I mean this is still fine yeah
i mean there are still even with this
I mean there are still even with this
new thing unless people are doing
i think the the first wave of changes
I think the the first wave of changes
will probably be around
but we discussed earlier in the morning
is that was
make it a bit more aggressive for
like this those trading this kind of
trading activity there is more
competition there
so if people are
submitting
at yeah like 100 000 troops they may
actually end up paying that with the
with this update
they're more likely to pay that
for trading yeah
so yeah i don't know like i think it's
so yeah I don't know like I think it's
more like yeah like a communication
strategy and documentation i think that
strategy and documentation I think that
we need to work on just in terms of
communication strategy and documentation
are we imagining that it is possible
that this cap could be included in
protocol 19 or is this already something
that might be for a subsequent protocol
oh yeah protocol 19 i mean like
oh yeah protocol 19 I mean like
ideally i think we
ideally I think we
we can put it in protocol knighting
which will
i think at the current pace
I think at the current pace
it looks like maybe it will be like
in the
at the earliest end of may which is
quite a bit of time for people to adjust
their wallets
or their settings in their wallets
yeah i also think the
yeah I also think the
the lead time on using the feature
doesn't have to be the same as the lead
time on implementing the feature
so
if this went into protocol 19 but
we do some surveying and
it looks like you know that's not a
realistic time
frame for wallets like maybe we could
maybe the ecosystem will hold off using
the feature for some period of time
right because validators would have to
decide to use the feature and so
there could be some readiness check
where before any validator use of the
feature happens there's just like a sort
of coordination
okay
yeah like very like yeah exactly like
those things will be enabled by flags
on the validator so
yeah there will be a an actual role i
mean it means i mean it still means that
mean it means I mean it still means that
if
like
after this change takes effect you
if you have like one of the validators
that decides they want to ignore the
flags or enable the features anyways
they can
but that's part of the
like the
audi trail that we have in the
in the
in the archives on the on on behavior of
your validity
okay
are there any questions about where we
are with cap 42 but it sounds like we're
in a pretty good spot
i think we left it at a good spot last
I think we left it at a good spot last
time and this addressed the things that
came up so
seems
pretty much ready to me
i mean i have one nit but it actually
I mean I have one nit but it actually
doesn't come up in this
in this cap
which is the way we indent our case
statements
is not compatible with git diff so
as a general point maybe we should
either like
include both the diff and the actual
data structures or we should like
reconsider how we indent xdr files it
just so happens that we lucked out and
then this diff like there's enough
context to read it properly but
sure i think that that's a formatting
sure I think that that's a formatting
issue right which we can sort of talk
about offline cool
i mean it sounds like with this cap
I mean it sounds like with this cap
it is probably ready to bring to a vote
which i can do off which i can
which I can do off which I can
i guess we can maybe do at the beginning
I guess we can maybe do at the beginning
of the next meeting
since jed happens to not be here today
in which case i think we can move on and
in which case I think we can move on and
talk about we could vote asynchronously
i don't think we need to wait for the
I don't think we need to wait for the
next meet i mean I'm ready to vote and
next meet I mean I'm ready to vote and
to move this forward so okay cool i'll
i'll schedule a vote asynchronously
and then we can share the results
publicly
and that way we don't have to wait and
we can sort of push that forward
cool so i think then in other words cat
cool so I think then in other words cat
42 is ready to put to the cap committee
for vote which is super cool possibly
for inclusion protocol 19.
but now it is time to move on to the
next discussion point cap 44 so cap
44 again is the speed x configuration
cap
speed x is a
new design for essentially a fully on
chain dex decentralized exchange
that allows for scaling high trend to
high transaction throughput
and we talked about speed x a fair
amount this year it's part of the s more
importantly get rid of path payments so
you no longer have to guess intermediary
currencies to get the best price
cool
yes and
but but for speed x we actually decided
to break up the implementation of speed
x into several caps and this first one
cap 44 is about how speed x is about who
and how speed x can be configured and
there's been some pretty interesting
discussion on the mailing list but to
sort of kick off I'm going to pass it to
john
sure thanks justin
so
just to give like a quick overview of
like what the discussion on the mailing
list has kind of been about the
conversations have kind of gone in like
a couple different directions
one question is about
can we
practically derive the
the set of assets that we can use with
speedx
rather than trying to configure it
i think the answer to that at this point
I think the answer to that at this point
is probably no
but we can talk about it more
then another line of conversation has
been around the basically the
lane of like
okay let's say that we do the simplest
thing and just you know do a do what's
in the cap now just like a voting
upgrade system
can we can we give some guidelines to
the validators that are actionable and
predictable so that we don't have
arguments in the community about like
what should be included
and then a third line of conversation
has kind of been about like the more
general
more general process types of things
like should we change the way that we do
upgrades to make this easier
and increase visibility and stuff like
that but none of this has resulted in
any changes to the actual proposal yet
because it's not remotely clear which
direction we should go
so with that kind of overview of
where the conversation has gone maybe we
should just like open up the floor and
see what people want to talk about
my my two cents around the the actual
like
ecosystem stuff around how to how to
make decisions i don't think this
make decisions I don't think this
belongs in the cap i
as a starting point i think we could
as a starting point I think we could
just discuss you know validators can
discuss over
the values channel on key base of the
validators channel on on the discord
there's no need to put too much
structure around this
same way that we coordinate
protocol upgrades these days obviously
this is much more
you know there will be some some
arguments and it's good but i don't
arguments and it's good but I don't
think we need to
like let's see
what this looks like before we start
solving for a problem that we don't
actually know
what it's going to look like
i mean i think the fact that we have
I mean I think the fact that we have
this debate in these questions
suggests to me that this isn't quite the
right design
so i still think that there's
so I still think that there's
multiple stakeholders here yes
validators are stakeholders but so are
the asset issuers and i don't think that
the asset issuers and I don't think that
i think that we should give more weight
I think that we should give more weight
to the asset issuers than the
validators and to the extent that
validators should be important it's only
because they're designated as kind of
official
repositories of information by the asset
issuers
i agree with david but i don't agree
I agree with david but I don't agree
with with the result i think that
with with the result I think that
asset issuers should strive to be
validators i think that's like proper
validators I think that's like proper
scp usage
and then they will have a vote
but you know just by virtue of having
like an asset issued
i don't think that's enough to
I don't think that's enough to
inform the validator network what to do
but i think as an asset issuer you are
but I think as an asset issuer you are
you are choosing to i issue your asset
you are choosing to I issue your asset
on Stellar because you know in large
part because you want a liquid market
between your asset and and other assets
right and so
you have an opinion about which which
markets are important for your asset
and
and and that's just not
reflected by by having the validators
make this decision so what are the
mechanics that you suggest for allowing
acid issuers to do this david
well i think that instead of a
well I think that instead of a
protocol upgrade this could be
a new type of operation
or a new type of of ledger entry
which is the
the other assets that like you're
interested in being in a speed x with
and
once you know when there's like a
kind of mutually
satisfactory speed x's then
like you could potentially
then you could like sort of create the
speed x but it should come it should we
should somehow have a way for the assad
issuers to express which or rank sort of
which assets they're most interested in
in being in a speed x with
and but and we shouldn't necessarily
have only one speed x right because
you know maybe there's
you know multiple disjoint sets of
assets and you know who are the
validators to say like which one is is
reality right like
and and how are the asset issuers
expected to
you know like this operation what is it
i think one of the options that we were
I think one of the options that we were
talking about was like staking lumens
right are there are there
other options or are we just like
reverting back to kind of like
stake weighted voting mechanisms the
same no it could just be like
it could just be
a
like a
a ledger like
you know an account entry or whatever
that you say like which which assets you
want to be like you have trust lines you
could have sort of like
you know speedx participations where you
like specify almost like a quorum slice
of of
of assets that you want to have in your
speedx
but every asset's gonna
issue or like lots of assets are gonna
issue these and there's
you know the the protocol still needs
some way of deciding like which
which assets are sort of important and
then maybe there's like some kind of i
don't know max weight matching
computation or something going on but
we still probably have to restrict it
down to like a certain size or a
certain
like network objective right so
there should be a configuration
parameter which is kind of like maximum
size of a speed x
right
but to me that seems like the only thing
the validators should really be deciding
and then it should be the assets
themselves that
that choose to make a market
what what are you wait am i unmuted yeah
what what are you wait am I unmuted yeah
i am what about the what about the
I am what about the what about the
case of contention like
take the most liquid assets on
Stellar which like buy
by like amm liquidity we could say
would be like
i don't know i think it's like ustc xln
I don't know I think it's like ustc xln
aqua a couple other assets
what
like
most assets would want to be able to
trade with those because that's where
you get a lot of benefit from speed x
being able to swap with the liquid ones
so let's just say that like for the sake
of argument to say that ustc has like
the most liquid markets on seller i
don't know if that's true but let's
pretend for the sake of argument
and then basically there's like
global contention on wanting to be in
the same speedx as usdc
who do we choose
well that gives usdc a lot of cloud
i think usdc should be then should be
I think usdc should be then should be
able to decide
you know who gets to be in a speed x
with them
or
maybe usdc can be in multiple speed x's
i mean that that creates arbitrage
I mean that that creates arbitrage
opportunity but
maybe it's not ridiculous
maybe we think that the price of uscc is
so stable that if it's in multiple speed
x's who cares it's the thing that will
anchor the valuations of all the other
assets
i think we're putting a bit too much
I think we're putting a bit too much
responsibility and weight on the asset
issuers in this case like if you look
at prior art and other networks
you know like that the issuer just
issues their asset and then there's like
a governing body for whatever
decentralized exchange yeah i understand
decentralized exchange yeah I understand
and so i would be into like reducing
and so I would be into like reducing
responsibility but not reducing sort of
like the privilege of like a powerful
asset issuer right because when it comes
down to it
you know
you know if usdc still like the problem
is we might have you it might be the
uscc issues their asset and they just
don't care they don't want to think
about speed x if other people have a use
for it that's great and so it'd be great
if kind of the default word that you
could be like recruited into whatever
speed x but that
if it comes down to it like you actually
have a say in like which markets are are
more important for your asset
i mean maybe the problem is i don't have
I mean maybe the problem is I don't have
a concrete proposal so maybe what i need
a concrete proposal so maybe what I need
to do in the next week or something is
like come up with like a concrete
counter proposal for like what this
would look like or maybe we could kind
of a few of us could meet offline and
like brainstorm about this
you know at the very least i would like
you know at the very least I would like
to convince myself maybe what I'm asking
for is impossible right but at the very
least i'd like to convince myself that
it's impossible
well and the other thing like and
i think that's why where i started when
I think that's why where I started when
i when i discussed this on the main list
I when I discussed this on the main list
i was wondering like
I was wondering like
why does
like if you want to have issuers for
example
have some say in the composition of
speedex
that should be part of how
that sep is written right for how
that
that set is is managed by the validator
i mean it's governance so you know it's
I mean it's governance so you know it's
one component i don't know if it's
one component I don't know if it's
if it needs to be
kind of baked into the protocol in any
way really
well one thing i need to baked in is
well one thing I need to baked in is
whether there's one speed x or sort of
one or more speed x's and
i I'm very much of the feeling that
I I'm very much of the feeling that
you know the the
the whole kind of Stellar philosophy is
like you know
we're not here to tell anyone what the
ground truth is we'll just let you know
like you can have some weird quorum
slice that you're some weird quorum
that's an entire entirely civil attack
and then you can have the real world and
like if they diverge like no big deal
right and so
i would similarly
I would similarly
like to be able to have like if there's
assets that are happy being in a speed x
together and they're disjoint then i
don't want to be in a position to decide
which are the real assets and which of
the fake out like validators shouldn't
be doing that
i guess at the same time oh sorry go
I guess at the same time oh sorry go
ahead no go ahead jeff the validators
are the one expending the compute to
to run it right so they should have a
say at least i think well there's
say at least I think well there's
fees being collected and i mean you know
fees being collected and I mean you know
yeah but the there's like a non-zero
cost of just like running and
maintaining speed x that's more than
just like you have the assets in your
database
i mean well now there's a question of
I mean well now there's a question of
like should we be compensating
validators or is like is it cheap enough
to run a validator that's not a big deal
well I'm just worried about like
somebody spinning up like a thousand
instances or there should be some
kind of we have to process it
appropriately right i mean sure
i guess it's i just i prefer i prefer
I guess it's I just I prefer I prefer
to use like market-based solutions like
we think that this like consumes
resources on the network therefore
people should be paying for it
i prefer a marketplace solution to a
I prefer a marketplace solution to a
like validators know best type solution
which is kind of what we're doing here
let me let me offer you maybe such a
like it's not quite what you want i
think but it it fits kind of nicely into
that space it's something that i
mentioned it both to jeff and nico
offline
so like the cap currently written is
basically like validators control the
speed x asset set and there was a whole
line of questioning like could we drive
the speed x assets which i kind of was
the speed x assets which I kind of was
like i have no idea how to do this i
like I have no idea how to do this i
don't know if it's actually even
remotely possible even feasible
and i presented some examples that
and I presented some examples that
are like kind of challenging
but when i was looking at that example
but when I was looking at that example
one of the things i realized is like
one of the things I realized is like
there's probably a core set of assets
that you'd kind of want in your speedx
no matter what like you know the world's
most liquid assets you know i think the
most liquid assets you know I think the
example i gave for like
example I gave for like
the imf
what's their thing called
the reserve basket thing i can't think
the reserve basket thing I can't think
of the word off the top of my head right
now
it's kind of like a good
representation of that or in america
it's like t-bonds and you know s p 500
or whatever
you know you'd always want those just
have the liquidity from them
but there's a whole bunch of stuff
you might want to trade that's not those
assets and so a hybrid solution is okay
like dr's
yeah sdrs thank you that's the word i
could not think of i appreciate it
could not think of I appreciate it
and so
one like world you could imagine is a
world where like you know you have let's
say we have space for 100 speed x assets
that's like the com the compute power we
have
so then we say like okay like the
validators can configure 50
and they can configure it however they
like using some off-chain governance
protocol whatever cares
the other 50 are literally what's in the
transaction set
determined by fees just like any other
way you get into the transaction set
so in that case the transaction set can
still have 100 total speed x assets 50
are fixed and advanced by the validators
the other 50 are just like literally the
ones that appear in that transaction set
if there's if there's 51 in the
transaction set it's invalid
and that basically means like the
validators don't have like
the truth power they just have the power
to say like hey like we think these are
the things that everybody always wants
so we can try to give you consistently
good prices but why don't we i mean why
good prices but why don't we I mean why
why
speculate that these are the things
people always want why not
have people actually say what they want
right so i mean so here's a like a dumb
right so I mean so here's a like a dumb
thing we could do okay let's say there's
only one speed x but we could have is we
could have everybody like vote their
lumens for like which assets they most
want to see in the speed x right and
then you know we just take this set
of assets that that has the
the greatest vote
why are we reverted reverting to stake
weighted voting this is like
like because it's less
Stellar philosophy
no
why is it a anti-Stellar philosophy
because because like we shy away from
the idea of
of of you know more money equals more
votes
well i mean what we're trying to what
well I mean what we're trying to what
we're trying to capture with scp is like
some abstract notion of cloud right
and you know we want this idea of like
if people are interested in a particular
in a
you know particular asset then and that
asset you know say like designates a
validator then like that validator is
going to have more clout in the network
i mean i agree like this stigmatic
I mean I agree like this stigmatic
voting isn't perfect but it's at least a
market-based solution the problem is
like you can't have a market-based
solution to consensus if you don't
already have consensus or you can't but
i mean there's our proof-of-stake
I mean there's our proof-of-stake
systems but they have all these other
drawbacks right which we which we don't
have but once we have consensus
then i'd rather have
you know
market-based solution just because we do
trust the validators to
maintain consensus doesn't mean we
should give them lots of extra power too
if we don't have to
i think going back to my original
I think going back to my original
appointment i think this is a great
appointment I think this is a great
opportunity to get stakeholders to
actually run their own validators which
is what you know like we've been talking
about sap forever as actual stakeholders
running validators this gives them a
reason to do that
i guess that's true but that it seems a
I guess that's true but that it seems a
little
indirect
i mean i i actually agree with
I mean I actually agree with
tomorrow's point here like if you're if
you're issuing like an asset that's
going to be used by everyone then
like you certainly at least should
like have a strong incentive to run a
validator or if you're not you're sort
of free loading off of everyone else
running validators well i i mean in an
running validators well I mean in an
ideal world you wouldn't necessarily
need to run a validator but you would
need to like hire someone to run a
validator so i think like a reasonable
validator so I think like a reasonable
like state of the world in like the
three years is that there are various
companies like block demon or whatever
who run like sort of validator in a
sorry
anchor in a box type products where
you you know what you could do is you
could you don't have to run a value
but you pay them to run the validator
for you and they can provide insurance
or like you sort of whatever else
and it's there's no reason why
someone just just is like probably a lot
of people like running their validators
on amazon right and so we don't need
like everybody to run a physical server
we just need everyone to say hey like we
trust amazon to like host our validator
and like and and and that's fine but
it's but they're at least explicitly
saying like yes this is the validator
that you should trust sure sure but but
there's that contractual relationship
there and through that i can tell
there and through that I can tell
whoever is running my validator to vote
for my asset to be in speed x in
whatever way right
and you know I'm still funding them
to run the validator but the problem is
that now let's say let's say that you
know
in in three years you know 40 of all
the kind of assets that anybody cares
about have like contracted with block
demon to be their validator right now we
still haven't
you know so now like
we haven't told block demon like how to
wait like various votes or whatever so
it's now is now black demon gonna be
actually the one
deciding which assets are important this
is going to be some term of like you
know
negotiation and these like confidential
contracts they potentially have with
their more important customers or can we
do it in an open transparent like you
know reasonable non-discriminatory
way where it's just like public how this
is happening and the decision is is
is out in the open
you guys mind if we zoom in on a
different aspect of what david was
talking about a second ago for a few
minutes can we zoom in on the one speed
x versus multiple speed x
question
i think like we have not given a lot of
I think like we have not given a lot of
thought to this this did not come up on
the like on the
cellar dev mailing list also i just want
cellar dev mailing list also I just want
to make sure we talk about it at least a
little bit i think it loops back into
little bit I think it loops back into
the other question as well
i can imagine
I can imagine
i think that if we come up it's possible
I think that if we come up it's possible
if we come up with an answer to the
thing we're just talking about that it
would work more easily if there's a
single speed x
but otherwise then you know all sql we
should have multiple speed x's
i would
I would
yeah my vote is is like i don't find the
yeah my vote is is like I don't find the
idea
offensive I'm just not sure that we need
to be thinking about this right now i
think that if we do get to a point where
it looks like the list of relevant
assets is growing to a point where
this is like it's too much for a single
speed x
then we can start you know
contemplating the idea of adding another
one but it seems like getting started
with with more than one speed x given
the
the shape of of the markets on
Stellar i think it's it's getting ahead
Stellar I think it's it's getting ahead
of ourselves i think that we should
of ourselves I think that we should
absolutely
think it's like we literally have like
you know an xdr diff in front of us
which is actually what we're
debating at the end of the day and so
there's absolutely a question of like
should there be an array of maximum
length one such that down the line we
can like you know increase the array
size
or
should it be sort of hard-coded like
this to have like only a single
speed x
but again i think it's like preliminary
but again I think it's like preliminary
to make that decision right now until we
figured out how we're going to choose
what the assets are but i think like an
what the assets are but I think like an
important kind of safety valve of
of like ensuring that like we're
choosing assets in a in a
kind of
Stellar and and like egalitarian way
and and market-based way is to say that
hey like you know if if there's like
complete disagreement in the world then
fine like have two speed x's like let's
not decide which one is the civil attack
and which one are the real assets
okay
let's go back to the other thing for one
second then since there's
people don't seem to want to talk about
this
but let me offer you a
thing a version of the world where
issuers actually
have some control
it's like a
kind of slightly weird version of the
world but it's not one that we've spoken
about yet
so in this version of configuration the
validators don't vote on any asset
configuration doesn't apply at all
every issuer
can like produce a list of assets that
they'd like to be in speed x with them
my guess is that most of those lists
will be exactly the same
or we could even have the validators
configure the default list and you only
get a different list if you actually put
something in that way if you're happy
with the default you don't have to do
anything
my guess is still that they would all be
very much the same but it's possible
they wouldn't
and then the way that we get the actual
set of assets in speedx is we
take every asset that appears in the
transaction set
you bid for fees to get a transaction
step so that's very market-based
and then the way we fill out the rest of
the asset set is we go over every asset
issuer
for for each of the assets that
appears in the transaction set and we
grab the asks from their list
now like the reason you have to do that
second part is like you definitely don't
want to so there's a different speed x
for every block
every block would have a different set
of assets potentially but actually i
almost prefer this we can even say like
you're just not allowed to when you're
forming a block it's like ill-formed if
your speed x involves
more than whatever the parameter number
of assets is right so any given block
can only have a certain number of
of
assets being touched by the speedx
operations and that could change from
block to block
but
hold on just i want to make before you
hold on just I want to make before you
go jeff i just want to make sure that
go jeff I just want to make sure that
I'm on the same page as you david do you
want the pure anarchy approach
where the validator like the validator
nominating the transaction set chooses
all the assets in the set or do you want
the semi-anarchy approach where they
choose the asset like they choose the
off the operations
and then you go to the issuers to get to
fill out the set
no i think i think actually the idea
no I think I think actually the idea
that like
each each you know you have one speed x
per block and it just there's some
maximum number of assets that can be can
be mentioned in a given block for the
speedx transactions
like i
i think that this well so so one
I think that this well so so one
point like why are we talking about
filling out the asset set my instinct
is that
in almost every situation we're going
to be having to prune down to a
certain size not like fill out assets
and then point two i think is there's
and then point two I think is there's
a huge value in having predictability in
what the assets that's going to be
otherwise
like i like
like I like
otherwise that like maybe you know some
validator says like I'm going to have
this at some other validator says I'm
going to have that asset and I'm like
now i started playing games about like
now I started playing games about like
where i send my transactions and then
where I send my transactions and then
like transactions get you know buffered
and then things get front run and then
starts getting really messy we'll
have a deterministic set of rules like
it'll be whoever like whatever collects
the most transaction fees or something
but i can still gain that with the
but I can still gain that with the
deterministic i like i i had a hard time
deterministic I like I had a hard time
coming up with like a deterministic rule
that wasn't gainable because i can
that wasn't gainable because I can
always submit
like transactions that are out of the
money or whatever to get my
assets in
maybe maybe I'm just being paranoid i
see so you're saying like you can you
can create standing orders
right i can set an order with like a
right I can set an order with like a
minimum price of like a million or
something and that'll never trade
and manipulate this manipulate the asset
selection rules which then manipulates
the prices
i think
I think
i mean i'd like to brainstorm about this
I mean i'd like to brainstorm about this
maybe offline a little bit because
like if there's if there's transactions
that you know are not going to like i
wonder if you can have a you know how
like you can have a post limit order
only type
order
so like maybe those could be free
and then like maybe we could have people
post however and cancel limit orders
like for as many assets as we want and
then we actually choose speed x based on
like the i don't know the depth of the
like the I don't know the depth of the
order book or the
the
number of transactions or something
because in a way you really want
speed x
for the trend for to to like you you
want the ones with the highest number of
transactions because that's where you
need the extra efficiency
i i don't know if that's true at all i
I I don't know if that's true at all i
mean like you should just revert back to
the mailing list where i gave like a
the mailing list where I gave like a
whole bunch of examples every time
anybody mentioned like a derivable set
about how you could game them and i i
about how you could game them and I i
feel
i feel so confident that they're all
I feel so confident that they're all
gameable that i i'd be willing to wager
gameable that I i'd be willing to wager
that for any
heuristic that you came up with i could
heuristic that you came up with I could
find a way to gain it
i feel pretty confident
I feel pretty confident
not that much but i still feel pretty
not that much but I still feel pretty
confident
so i don't know david's come up with
so I don't know david's come up with
some pretty crazy stuff before i feel
some pretty crazy stuff before I feel
like he could maybe come up with
something that i couldn't figure out how
something that I couldn't figure out how
to how to game even though i still
to how to game even though I still
believe it would be game
so that's why I'm not willing to really
make a big league but my point
is like any kind of heuristic is
probably extremely vulnerable
and like the burden of proof to get me
to want to vote for something like that
to want to support something like that
and to want to implement something like
that would be convincing me that it's
not gameable
and i think that's going to be really
and I think that's going to be really
really hard
just like just being honest i think
just like just being honest I think
driving the transaction set
is just borderline
so but but if there's multiple speed x's
it could make the gaming not a problem
right if the way i game the system is by
right if the way I game the system is by
creating a second speed x who cares
right
but we still like to determine the
competition
yeah it's not like you're creating an
infinite number of speed x's either so
at some point you have to pick which one
of those feed x's is well it's not like
you have an infinite number of of
transactions in a block either so
no but that's it goes back to it it's
all gameable
i think there's just generally value
I think there's just generally value
value in having a
system that sort of runs predictably
here
i agree i agree but
I agree I agree but
all right i feel like that i feel well
all right I feel like that I feel well
look this thing obviously is not ready
to to move oh well to be accepted today
anyway right so i feel like now and i
anyway right so I feel like now and i
feel like now i have a challenge to like
feel like now I have a challenge to like
at least propose something
or try or figure out why i can't you
or try or figure out why I can't you
know
i think we should also think about or
I think we should also think about or
sorry go ahead i did want to answer one
sorry go ahead I did want to answer one
question that you had actually before
jeff which is like why are you talking
about filling out the transaction set
and it goes back to that like that
example i posted like it's like five or
example I posted like it's like five or
six or seven or eight emails back now on
the mailing list
like it was like an example using like
major world currencies and like it was a
trade for like pounds for yen
but basically like the concern i have
but basically like the concern I have
is like you end up in a in a world where
like
imagine that like you know
imagine that the russian central bank
just like happened to announce for some
crazy reason that they were going to
raise their interest rate from 9.5 to 20
not that this is realistic at all but
like imagine that would happen
i imagine that there might be a ton of
I imagine that there might be a ton of
people who wanted to sell their rubles
maybe all for euros and usd
but like if you only have those three
assets you're potentially missing out of
a lot of like cross liquidity that you
can get from area to bro markets like
you know where you use the other amms to
pull more
source and sync through so that you can
trade more rubles at a good price
so now imagine that for some
crazy reason usdc doesn't want there to
be a very liquid market between rubles
and usdc
and so they feel like if they're
going to be in a speed x they would
prefer to be at a speed x without e
rubles or whatever
that is a good point i think at least
that is a good point I think at least
the asset issuer should have a veto on
on participation
well either they should have veto or if
they should
they should at least not be in any way
complicit like it should be like it
should be like everybody else wanted it
and they were overruled or something
yeah i guess yeah and also
yeah I guess yeah and also
we've been we've been expressing like
asset issuers want good markets with
certain assets and we should also let
them express the opposite opinion i
don't want to market with this asset
i mean
you know listen six years here's
something here's something we could do
we could actually have
like
speed x's owned by account so we could
say like look we're actually going to
you know instead of a validator there's
just like someone everybody thinks is
important and we're going to let them
choose the assets and they're going to
create a speed x and if you don't like
that then you can create your own speed
x and if people start trading on your
speed x great if not then you're
irrelevant
this makes it harder with the
liquidity pools and also isn't this like
more unaccountable
than the validator well it's it's both
more and less like we know who it is
right there's now like someone who's
running the speed x and if that person
needs to comply with like russian
sanctions that person can remove the
ruble and if somebody else you know if
if if somebody in russia says hey you
guys suck I'm going to create a new
speed x on Stellar
you know more power to them they can do
that but if none of the other assets
want to move over to the new speed x
then then that new speed x with the
ruble it'll be the ruble trading against
nothing right
what if we did something with like asset
issuers issue preferences and then
validators issue like weights to
different assets and then we compute
via some like global optimization like
min i don't know max matching or
min I don't know max matching or
something
based on the express preferences or
sounds complicated at some point you're
really starting to ask a lot of people
to do a lot of complications okay so
well so what I'm saying is simple what's
wrong with my thing like there's just a
there's just each speed x has a dictator
but there's multiple speed x's so at the
end of the day if the dictator is bad
people will just go to a different speed
x
and is there in your world an unlimited
number of speed x's that can be created
because
that's our question how do you stop an
evil dick or just like some someone who
should not be creating a bunch of speed
x's from creating a bunch of speed-ups
maybe they were there you need some like
reserve currency or you need some
reserve balance to do it or something or
like well
what we have i think we're probably fine
what we have I think we're probably fine
having like five speed x's right you
probably don't want like
five million but
this has the nice benefit of giving a
particular person accountability for
like running the price computation
but it also
we need to figure out how to bring
the liquidity pools like what if
there's a you know competition between
for like liquidity pool liquidity
i think we could just have arbitrage
I think we could just have arbitrage
opportunities i mean like we hope no but
opportunities I mean like we hope no but
but like you can't run this price
competition with like if usdc and euros
are
both in two different speed x's then
there's like contention on the liquidity
pull between the two assets
and and
like
maybe there's only maybe the only asset
that can be more than one liquidity pool
is the lumen because no one's there to
like control the lumen but otherwise the
asset issuer has to has to say which
liquidity pool they want to be in
right so then we're saying like asset
issuers declare exactly which fedex
they're in
yeah
which is back to the first point that
you decided you didn't like
or somebody decided they didn't like it
there's one additional point that i want
there's one additional point that I want
to bring into the picture here which is
you know our acid issuers
they're active on on several networks
and a lot of a lot of the activity in
the in the space is kind of like
multi-chain
the
i think we really need to focus on our
I think we really need to focus on our
differentiators being like high value
differentiators because every time we
add something to Stellar that makes it
so much more different than any other
network network index out there
we we
just make it more challenging for these
for these players to actually be
idiomatic players in a Stellar ecosystem
so we really need to make sure that
whenever we add something that's
different it's really worth it
okay and having asset issuers need to to
be involved in listing on decentralized
exchanges
is a big step away from what they're
used to be used to doing right now so i
just want to be cognizant about that so
yeah i think your your point is right
yeah I think your your point is right
but it's not inc so i think what we want
but it's not inc so I think what we want
to do is we want asset we want to give
asset assures the control but we want to
ensure that something good happens to an
asset issuer who just doesn't care and
hasn't configured it yet right like
maybe usdc like they can't be bothered
to learn about speedx but everybody else
is interested in that asset and so we
need to make sure that that makes it
onto like a good speed x
you know like going like a different
direction in this conversation do people
actually care
like
like right now
there's no way to really stop your asset
from trading against another asset like
it can happen on the decks for like
basically
any asset like as long as you as long as
somebody is authorized to hold your
asset like
i mean they can trade it for anything
I mean they can trade it for anything
they want
so like why should we
give that additional power in speed x
like i i know that there's some like
like I know that there's some like
interesting because of scalability right
only if yes if we could have a million
assets in a single speed x i would
assets in a single speed x I would
say we shouldn't do any of this right so
it's only i think for the scalability
it's only I think for the scalability
problem
i guess my point is like
I guess my point is like
there are two kinds of preferences we
were talking about one is the positive
preference like i'd like to have this
liquidity available to me
that's that's pretty easy like my
proposal
or rather not to me but to my to like
people who want to trade my ass i'd like
to have this liquidity available
the reverse position
which is like i'd like to not have this
liquidity available is not not something
expressible really on Stellar today i
don't know why we should make that
accessible so basically what you're
saying is like you shouldn't you
shouldn't
you shouldn't let an asset issuer
prevent their asset from being traded
with ruble anyway if they really care
what they should do is they should like
you know use reclaimable assets they
should sanction you know they should kyc
their users and they should like to go
to the appropriate authorities if they
have evidence that someone is like
evading sanctions and you know they've
kyc people so exactly so okay i think
kyc people so exactly so okay I think
that's fine because that's
and and if they really care they can
use clawback or they can you know revoke
the trust line to freeze it exactly they
can basically say okay like you're doing
stuff that we don't approve of like it's
not in our terms of service
that's true and in fact so really what
we should be thinking of is the only
reason we're talking about any of this
is because we can't put every asset in
the speed x it's just for scalability
and so
just real quick quick question about
that that is a functional limit that we
can't change is that correct or is there
a chance that we could
through some sort of
engine ingenuity or engineering research
breakthrough absolutely but but but but
they're like the limit is
just remind me like what is the reason
for the limit
that's a great question and jeff is the
best place to answer it right so
there's two things right so there's
the price computation itself and then
the sort of follow-up
correction
linear programming
and
basically the the
the runtime of each loop of the price
computation is
linear in the number of asset pairs
and also you might need more rounds
based on more assets
this is especially like you need more
rounds of the price computation
typically for assets that are more
thinly traded
and then so so there's that scalability
problem and then there's also
the the follow-up sort of linear
programming step
if i just threw a standard linear
if I just threw a standard linear
programming solver at it i would sort of
programming solver at it I would sort of
that that seems to top out at like 50 to
100 assets and then i was running
100 assets and then I was running
experiments last night which you know
caveat that code that you run right late
at night is usually broken but i was
at night is usually broken but I was
pulling in some
other open source libraries that i
hadn't played with before and that
seemed to push it to like a few hundred
like three or four hundred assets
but but after that you know you're
solving a
some variant of a linear program which
has
typically a quadratic or cubic or
something some kind of run time which
which sort of no matter what you're
eventually going to have a prohibitive
bottleneck there
there's some things you can play with it
and and possibly you know breakthroughs
you can make but
we're doing some more research on that
topic it's something that like me and
jeff and a couple other people around
sdf were talking about quite extensively
yesterday
and it looks like you know it's
pretty clear we can do better than
jeff's original estimate of 100 but like
getting significantly better than a
thousand also probably looks kind of out
of reach right now
like even if we can do better than you
know what jeff hacked up in the middle
of the night yesterday i
i wouldn't be confident to say we could
I wouldn't be confident to say we could
do a thousand that already sounds really
high maybe we'll find out we're wrong
but like 10 000 or you know 50 those are
numbers that like are not even really in
the conversation like they don't even
sound remotely plausible within like the
limits we're working right now like to
achieve those kinds of numbers which
would still be a fraction of the total
number of assets on Stellar
we would be like we'd be as david
said like doing novel
perhaps unprecedented research
so so here's an idea what if each what
if each speed x had its own order book
sorry what do you mean
in other words so so the problem so one
of the problems with having the with the
sort of the dictator one dictator per
speed x model that i think john brought
speed x model that I think john brought
up is that you could have
you could have two dictators each of
whom wants to include both usdc and and
eurt right and so now what if like
you so now they're sort of competing for
the same set of orders but they the
pearson the person placing the order
could also name the
the speed x
or we could somehow divvy up the or the
order book between speed x's
i mean this seems fine to me i think
I mean this seems fine to me I think
anytime you have multiple speed x's with
the same assets you're going to fragment
liquidity but
or actually what if you just run them in
different phases i mean like
different phases I mean like
you know if we if we only have like five
speed x's right if we run the speed x's
serially then we just have some
random order you do the first speed x
and then you just use whatever's left
over the order book to do the second
speed x and then the third speed x
my real concern is just like
i i just really feel like the returns of
I I just really feel like the returns of
doing this are just like really marginal
like
my intuition and
my intuition's been wrong many times
before so I'm not claiming that what i
believe is necessarily right but like my
guess is all the really high quality
liquid assets appear in the first speed
x
whatever you want to label this first
spur speed x and some ordering you know
I'm not saying that the first px might
be the one that executes second right i
understand i understand but what i mean
understand I understand but what I mean
is like basically the first speed x is
the place where you want to trade and it
has all the value basically right the
first in terms of the liquidity ordering
and then all the second tier assets
trade with each other but because
they're all low liquidity assets the
aggregate liquidity is really low
there's no good asset in there no super
liquid acid in there to provide a lot of
liquidity and then anything that doesn't
make it into that one has even worse
liquidity globally and so basically it's
like you know you have like the vc thing
where it's like the first thing has to
do better than all the other things the
second thing has to be better than all
the other things except the first
and like
is there anything so that's why i think
is there anything so that's why I think
there wouldn't be more than five speed
x's right but i just it's it's a way to
x's right but I just it's it's a way to
i just i just don't want to put
I just I just don't want to put
validators
in a position of having to like justify
like particular assets i imagine that
like particular assets I imagine that
like there's a really popular asset and
it turns out to be a fraud and like you
were operating a validator and you like
voted to include that asset in the thing
right so now are you liable for that
like you could have chosen a good asset
and you you chose to make it easier for
people to buy this fraudulent asset like
what's your responsibility there
I'm not a legal expert but like
probably very little like i i don't
probably very little like I don't
think that you know american stock
exchanges get listed when you know like
sorry american stock exchanges get sued
over listing well nobody is but that's
that's a good example the stock
exchanges have like relatively stringent
requirements for companies to get
listed and when the companies don't
comply they get de-listed right so we're
now putting so if we if we use that
analogy now validators are actually
required to police these assets right
and to you know
potentially making sure that they're
disclosing things and whatever because
otherwise they bear some responsibility
that is a good point and it's also
possible we would get validators just
like not paying attention and voting no
on everything so they don't have this
liability
and then we wouldn't have any assets
in speedx
so at this point we only have two
minutes left and i think what i want to
minutes left and I think what I want to
make sure that we do is it seems like
there are some actions that need to
happen between now and the next time
that we need to move this long and
principally
david i think it falls to you
david I think it falls to you
because it sounds like you want to come
up with some sort of concrete
explanation of another way to
determine or at least try
let's try yeah
is it so so that's sort of something
that you're gonna work on is there
anything else that needs to happen
after this meeting in order to keep the
conversation going forward or is it
primarily we should move all the
extension units to the top of the
structure I'm not never gonna vote to
prove another proposal on which the ext
fields aren't like the first one in the
structure but that's not a huge ask i
have
right do some housekeeping we should do
something
but for the speedx configuration
proposal like i believe from everything
proposal like I believe from everything
i've heard
it's it's time to see if david can come
up with an alternative concrete proposal
right and maybe we can meet offline or
something maybe john and jeff we could
like talk at some point yeah
this afternoon or what
and
and likewise i'll like i actually have
and likewise i'll like I actually have
some like intrigue about the proposal i
made quite a bit earlier about like the
you know take the stuff from the
transaction set and then use the issuers
list to fill out the set
i'll write something up on the
mailing list about that too to kind of
give like a full overview of how that
would work and why i think it's not a
would work and why I think it's not a
terrible idea
i think it fits somewhere in between
I think it fits somewhere in between
some of these other proposals and
david's proposals so
great anything else people want to see
all right perfect so we'll look forward
to that stuff and obviously the sooner
that you can get it done
ideally if there's something for people
to read with enough time in advance for
the meeting so like there's just you
know the meeting is two weeks two weeks
yeah yeah
that's ideal all right cool thanks
everybody thanks everyone for watching
if you want to follow along there's a
link there for the Stellar dev mailing
list that's where these discussions
happen asynchronously so please join and
watch the discussion unfold and
contribute if you have good ideas
everybody thanks so much bye
you